All right so a quick summary of what we just covered.
So number one and this is the most important thing.
Remember your mnemonic your moniker says to find the way.
Just plug it in again.
It even rhymes.
How cool is that to find him.
Just plug it in.
Any time you get a LIMIT the first thing you're going to try.
Always always always is to take the number that is approaching.
Plugging that in into the function.
If you get a zero in the bottom then you know you need to do something else but otherwise that is your
limit.
All right.
So sometimes plugging in a number for a limit will result in a denominator of zero.
When this happens you can either factor or rationalize.
So we can do one of two things depending on what we have.
The factory sation is expressing something in terms of multiplication and we cover the difference of
perfect squares and difference or perfect squares is basically this.
If you have A-squared mine is B squared.
So you have a difference of squares right because you are squaring a and you're square in B then that
can be broken down into a plus b times a minus B.
And remember a is not a squared is just the A itself.
The same for B.
So if you have something like X squared.
Mine is 16 that's going to be equal to x plus four times x.
Mine is for.
So you pretty much take whatever's being squared this X and for the 16 words being squared is a 4 right.
Because Foursquare equals 16.
To not make the mistake of putting a 16 here and a 16 here.
All right cool.
So there are other cases of factorization and we'll find those problems when we do them.
Then rationalization is multiplying a fraction by its conjugate on top and bottom then cancelling a
term on both top and bottom and plugging in the number.
So remember we did rationalization as well.
And by the way a conjugate is the same expression with a different sign in the middle.
So for example if you have a square root of x mine is 64 the conjugate of is will be a square root of
x plus 64.
Let's look at one more concept and the last concept is that not all limits exist.
Sometimes they just don't exist.
So for example when plugging in a limit gives the number over zero.
The limit does not exist at that point there is no need to do any sort of rationalization or factoring.
It just does not exist.
Now when it gives you 0 0 then at that point you can go ahead and you can try some other things.
All right.
That's pretty much it.
So to find a way.
Just plug it in to not forget that and we'll do a couple of problems and the problems section.
I'll see you in the next tutorial.